GNU Radio Flowcharts

MusicRTL.grc is the master flowchart file that we have developed in order to implement a rudimentary AoA estimator. An image of this flowchart (as seen on GNU Radio Companion) is indicated as MusicRTL Flowchart Image File.png for clarity. IQ Data Extraction Demo.grc is the GNU Radio flowchart used for display the real and imaginary components of received radio frequency (RF) signals at each RTL SDR. This demo shows that the I/Q sampling process is done automatically at a specified sampling rate by RTL-SDR Source blocks in GNU Radio. The image of this flowchart is indicated by IQ Data Extraction Demo.grc. 

If the image is low resolution on GitHub, please download the image file in order to increase the resolution.

In MusicRTL.grc, two RTL-SDR Sources are used with a specified sampling rate of 1 Msps, 433.9 MHz, and 98 kHz bandwidth. Complex values of I/Q values are transmitted to an autocorrelation block which uses a forward-backward averaging method to compute a sample correlation matrix (which is used in the MUSIC algorithm) from a 2048k length vector of inputted samples. Another purpose of the autocorrelation block is that it is rate-limiting – since MUSIC is computationally expensive, we would want to feed inputs into this algorithm at a lower sampling rate. The rate-limiting level is directly correlated to the snapshot length of the block. The autocorrelation block outputs to a MUSIC Linear Array block which uses the MUSIC algorithm to determine the AoAs of the received signal. The Music Linear block has parameters norm_spacing (distance between antenna elements divided by the wavelength of the carrier signal) and inputs (number of elements in the antenna array). The result of this flowchart is an AoA which can be more effectively tested/viewed from a GUI Compass. 
