In our implementation, we use MUSIC to determine accuarate angle of arrival (AoA) values. MUSIC performs an eigenvalue decomposition on a covariance matrix of inputted data samples obtained from the received signal. From the orthogonality of signal and noise subspaces taken from the decomposition, peaks in an estimator function are found which determine a pseudospectrum vector. More information can be found in the paper "Optimization of MUSIC algorithm for angle of arrival estimation in wireless communications" (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S209099771300031X).

The MUSIC algorithm that we have used is completely encapsulated in a GNU Radio Custom Block developed by Ettus Research. Ettus Research is a National Instruments company that is the world’s leading supplier of software defined radio and publishes software that can be used with its products online. We choose to use custom blocks developed by Ettus Research because they are very well documented and have been empirically tested (see [16]).

GNU Radio blocks are DSP functions encapsulated into "blocks" to be used in a flowchart to accomplish an overall task from received RF samples. Custom blocks are usually developed by an individual or a small group of researchers and are not included in the main GNU Radio directory, where widely used DSP functions can be found. Ettus custom blocks are successfully integrated into GNU Radio after an in-depth installation process which is listed in the tutorial PDF. This installation guide also includes instructions for getting RTL SDR Drivers and GNU Radio working on Ubuntu. The first linked online video tutorial pairs with step 1 of the installation guide (RTL SDR driver setup). The second linked online video tutorial provides an overview of GQRX, a software that allows a user to monitor various frequencies and bandwidths with the RTL SDR.

The GRC folder contains files that we have developed in GNU Radio Companion to implement signal processing flowcharts. The custom blocks folder contains code for the Ettus Blocks used in the flowchart files within the GRC folder.
